Updates why this cli docs (#6452)
pnp/cli-microsoft365: docs/docs/about/why-cli.mdx

sidebar_position: 1
---

# Why this CLI?

CLI for Microsoft 365 is a cross-platform CLI that allows users on any platform to manage various configuration settings of Microsoft 365.

> - CLI for Microsoft 365 offers a variety of commands from many different areas of Microsoft 365 like: [SharePoint Online](../cmd/spo/spo-get), [Teams](../cmd/teams/app/app-install), [Viva engage](../cmd/viva/engage/engage-search), [Entra](../cmd/entra/administrativeunit/administrativeunit-add), [Power Apps](../cmd/pa/app/app-export), [Power Automate](../cmd/flow/flow-disable), [Power Platform](../cmd/pp/aibuildermodel/aibuildermodel-get), [OneDrive](../cmd/onedrive/onedrive-list), [Planner](../cmd/planner/bucket/bucket-add), [OneNote](../cmd/onenote/notebook/notebook-add), [Outlook](../cmd/outlook/mail/mail-send), [SharePoint Embedded](../cmd/spe/containertype/containertype-add) and many more.

Reviewer: Let's make this into a list to make it easier to read. Next to naming all these areas, let's emphasize what's the benefit of combining all these areas into one tool, for example:
- consistency (manage all areas in the same way, rather than having to learn how each tool for each area work)
- interoperability (login once, manage everything, easily pass values from one command in one area to another in another area)
- convenience (install, manage, and learn one tool)

- Intuitive! If you would like to `add` a new `SharePoint Online` `list` simply write `m365 spo list add` and if you need to do a different action like modifying the list or retrieving it simply change the verb to: `get`, `set`, `remove` etc. 
- Interactive by default. Starting to use a new CLI is never easy, that's why CLI for Microsoft 365 offers an interactive mode that actively asks (prompts) you for the required options of a command you want to run. You may also [configure autocomplete for commands](../user-guide/completion.mdx) and options that you're typing in the prompt for almost any terminal.

> - [Different `output` modes](../user-guide/cli-output-mode.mdx) allow you to choose how you want to see the results of your commands. You can choose between `json` which is perfect to be used in a script when the output of one command will be used as an input to another command, `text` which is perfect for human reading, and `csv` or even `md` (markdown) which is perfect to create a report based outcome.

Reviewer: Let's avoid repeating _perfect_ each time. We can use other words like _convenient_, _helpful_, _optimized_, _suitable_, etc.

> - Integrates everywhere. CLI for Microsoft 365 was created based on Node.js technologies which allows you to run it on any device and in any shell.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Runs on any device in any shell. CLI for Microsoft 365 runs on Node.js and you can run it on any device and in any shell.
```

> - [Manage SharePoint Framework solutions](../cmd/spfx/spfx-doctor). CLI for Microsoft 365 will help you setup your local environment for SPFx development and will help you with common tasks when developing SPFx solutions, like validating its correctness or getting guidance on how to upgrade it.

Reviewer: Let's emphasize this, because this is unique functionality that only we offer.

- Make [CLI for Microsoft 365 your own](../user-guide/configuring-cli). CLI for Microsoft 365 offers a variety of settings that will allow you to customize it for your specific use case or needs. If going over the settings is challenging, then you will love the [m365 setup](../cmd/setup) command that will help you customize CLI for common use cases like setting it to be tailored to be run in a script.
- AI, Of course, we have an AI! CLI for Microsoft 365 comes along with an [AI assistant chili 🌶️](../user-guide/chili) that will help you find the right commands for your tasks.

> - You may use it in CI/CD pipelines. It integrates easily with Azure DevOps and natively with GitHub workflows. CLI has dedicated [GitHub actions](../user-guide/github-actions) which you may use directly in GitHub workflow and it allows you to scaffold a pipeline for [Azure DevOps](../cmd/spfx/project/project-azuredevops-pipeline-add) and [GitHub workflows](../cmd/spfx/project/project-github-workflow-add).

Reviewer: Let's move this up where we talk about interoperability because these points belong together.

- How many CLI's allows you to run it as your API in an app? That is what I though. [CLI for Microsoft 365 may be used as an API](../user-guide/use-cli-api) in your Node.js app.
- You may filter and sort the output of every command. [Filtering and sorting](../user-guide/filter-cli-data.mdx) is a powerful feature that allows you to get only the data you need and in the order you want.

Interested in more? Start with our [user guide](../user-guide/using-cli.mdx) and learn how to use the CLI for Microsoft 365.

> # Why not another approach or a different CLI?

Reviewer: Should this be an h2?

### Why not just do things manually?

Using CLI for Microsoft 365 is not about replacing the UI, it's about making your life easier. If you need to do a repetitive task, like creating a new SharePoint list every time a new project is started, you can create a script and automate this task with CLI for Microsoft 365. This way you can save time and avoid human errors.

### Why not just write your own CLI or some custom console app tailored to your needs?

You could, but why reinvent the wheel? CLI for Microsoft 365 is a powerful tool that is being actively developed and maintained by a team of experts. It's open-source and free to use. It's also cross-platform and works on any device. It's a great tool that can help you manage your Microsoft 365 tenant more efficiently.

### Why not use SharePoint Online Management Shell?

> SharePoint Online Management Shell is a great tool, but it's limited to SharePoint Online. CLI for Microsoft 365 offers a variety of commands from many different areas of Microsoft 365 like SharePoint Online, Teams, Viva engage, Entra, Power Apps, Power Automate, Power Platform, OneDrive, Planner, OneNote, Outlook, SharePoint Embedded and many more. It's a more comprehensive tool that can help you manage your Microsoft 365 tenant more efficiently.

Reviewer: Also, let's emphasize that it works only in PowerShell. Does it still work only on Windows?

Reviewer 2: AFAIK, this module is still not supported with PS Core, right? So I guess it's only Windows yeah.
Also, another downside that you could mention is that the module only works for SharePoint administration tasks. So you can only use it to run admin-related commands. Doing stuff on a regular SP site is not supported.

Author: yep. That is correct it works only on Windows PS

### Why not Microsoft Graph CLI or Microsoft Graph PowerShell SDK?

> Microsoft Graph CLI and Microsoft Graph PowerShell SDK are amazing, but they are limited to Microsoft Graph API. CLI for Microsoft 365 integrates not only Microsoft Graph but also SharePoint (REST API and CSOM), Azure, Planner, Power Platform, and other APIs. It's a more comprehensive tool that can help you manage your Microsoft 365 tenant more efficiently. Each command documentation is 'handcrafted’ not generated code which makes it more human-readable and easier to understand.

Reviewer: Another benefit is that we offer some scenario-based commands, whereas Graph CLI and SDK only project the Graph API.

> Microsoft Graph CLI and Microsoft Graph PowerShell SDK are amazing, but they are limited to Microsoft Graph API. CLI for Microsoft 365 integrates not only Microsoft Graph but also SharePoint (REST API and CSOM), Azure, Planner, Power Platform, and other APIs. It's a more comprehensive tool that can help you manage your Microsoft 365 tenant more efficiently. Each command documentation is 'handcrafted’ not generated code which makes it more human-readable and easier to understand.

Reviewer: Let's fix the quotes around _handcrafted_.

### Why not use PnP PowerShell instead?

> There is never a single perfect tool for every use case. Although PnP PowerShell may be a great alternative to CLI for Microsoft 365 there are many advantages of using CLI for Microsoft 365. To name a few: 

Reviewer: I'd rephrase this slightly. I suggest we say something along the lines:

> If you use PowerShell, PnP PowerShell is a convenient solution that you can use to manage different parts of Microsoft 365. CLI for Microsoft 365 offers additional flexibility with the ability to run it in any shell. CLI for Microsoft 365 also offers unique commands to manage SPFx solutions. Whether you're a beginner or an advanced user, and want to use CLI for daily interactive use or scripting, you can configure CLI for Microsoft 365 to your needs making an invaluable tool in your toolbox.

sidebar_position: 1
---

# Why this CLI?

CLI for Microsoft 365 is a cross-platform CLI that allows users on any platform to manage various configuration settings of Microsoft 365.

> - CLI for Microsoft 365 offers a variety of commands from many different areas of Microsoft 365, such as:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- CLI for Microsoft 365 offers a variety of commands from many different areas of Microsoft 365, for example:
```

  - [SharePoint Online](../cmd/spo/spo-get)
  - [Teams](../cmd/teams/app/app-install)
  - [Viva engage](../cmd/viva/engage/engage-search)
  - [Power Apps](../cmd/pa/app/app-export)
  - [Power Automate](../cmd/flow/flow-disable)
  - [Power Platform](../cmd/pp/aibuildermodel/aibuildermodel-get)
  - [OneDrive](../cmd/onedrive/onedrive-list)
  - [Planner](../cmd/planner/bucket/bucket-add)
  - [OneNote](../cmd/onenote/notebook/notebook-add)
  - [Outlook](../cmd/outlook/mail/mail-send)

>   - [SharePoint Embedded](../cmd/spe/containertype/containertype-add)

Reviewer 2: Let's order these alphabetically + let's add Entra ID as well since this is quite a large command group.

  - and many more...

  Benefits of combining all these areas into single tool:
  - **Consistency**: Manage all areas in the same way, rather than having to learn how each tool for each area works.
  - **Interoperability**: Login once, manage everything, and easily pass values from one command in one area to another in another area.
  - **Convenience**: Install, manage, and learn a single tool.

> - Intuitive! If you would like to `add` a new `SharePoint Online` `list` simply write `m365 spo list add` and if you need to do a different action like modifying the list or retrieving it simply change the verb to: `get`, `set`, `remove` etc. 

Reviewer 2: Is there a reason why this bullet list has no title whatsoever?

Author: isn't it like a follow up to other benefits. So the first is that CLI offers many commands with details about that and then next is intuitive  interactive etc.

Author: I will maybe reorder this list to make it more clean

- Interactive by default. Starting to use a new CLI is never easy, that's why CLI for Microsoft 365 offers an interactive mode that actively asks (prompts) you for the required options of a command you want to run. You may also [configure autocomplete for commands](../user-guide/completion.mdx) and options that you're typing in the prompt for almost any terminal.

> - [Different `output` modes](../user-guide/cli-output-mode.mdx) allow you to choose how you want to see the results of your commands. You can choose between `json` which is optimized to be used in a script when the output of one command will be used as an input to another command, `text` which is perfect for human reading, and `csv` or even `md` (markdown) which is suitable to create a report based outcome.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Different output modes](../user-guide/cli-output-mode.mdx) allow you to choose how you want to see the results of your commands. You can choose between `json` which is optimized to be used in a script when the output of one command will be used as an input to another command, `text` which is perfect for human reading, and `csv` or even `md` (markdown) which is suitable to create a report based outcome.
```

- Make [CLI for Microsoft 365 your own](../user-guide/configuring-cli). CLI for Microsoft 365 offers a variety of settings that will allow you to customize it for your specific use case or needs. If going over the settings is challenging, then you will love the [m365 setup](../cmd/setup) command that will help you customize CLI for common use cases like setting it to be tailored to be run in a script.
- AI, Of course, we have an AI! CLI for Microsoft 365 comes along with an [AI assistant chili 🌶️](../user-guide/chili) that will help you find the right commands for your tasks.
- How many CLI's allows you to run it as your API in an app? That is what I though. [CLI for Microsoft 365 may be used as an API](../user-guide/use-cli-api) in your Node.js app.
- You may filter and sort the output of every command. [Filtering and sorting](../user-guide/filter-cli-data.mdx) is a powerful feature that allows you to get only the data you need and in the order you want.

> 

Reviewer 2: Some more ideas:

* Multi connections approach
* Transparency: you can see everything a command does when you specify `--debug`

Interested in more? Start with our [user guide](../user-guide/using-cli.mdx) and learn how to use the CLI for Microsoft 365.

## Why not another approach or a different CLI?

### Why not just do things manually?

Using CLI for Microsoft 365 is not about replacing the UI, it's about making your life easier. If you need to do a repetitive task, like creating a new SharePoint list every time a new project is started, you can create a script and automate this task with CLI for Microsoft 365. This way you can save time and avoid human errors.

### Why not just write your own CLI or some custom console app tailored to your needs?

You could, but why reinvent the wheel? CLI for Microsoft 365 is a powerful tool that is being actively developed and maintained by a team of experts. It's open-source and free to use. It's also cross-platform and works on any device. It's a great tool that can help you manage your Microsoft 365 tenant more efficiently.

### Why not use SharePoint Online Management Shell?

> SharePoint Online Management Shell is a great tool, but it's limited to SharePoint Online and only works with Windows PowerShell. Additionally, it only supports SharePoint administration tasks, so you can only use it to run admin-related commands. In contrast, CLI for Microsoft 365 offers a variety of commands from many different areas of Microsoft 365 like SharePoint Online, Teams, Viva Engage, Entra, Power Apps, Power Automate, Power Platform, OneDrive, Planner, OneNote, Outlook, SharePoint Embedded, and many more. It's a more comprehensive tool that can help you manage your Microsoft 365 tenant more efficiently.

Reviewer 2: I wouldn't repeat all the areas again. We already did that at the start of this page.

### Why not Microsoft Graph CLI or Microsoft Graph PowerShell SDK?

Microsoft Graph CLI and Microsoft Graph PowerShell SDK are amazing, but they are limited to Microsoft Graph API. CLI for Microsoft 365 integrates not only Microsoft Graph but also SharePoint (REST API and CSOM), Azure, Planner, Power Platform, and other APIs. It's a more comprehensive tool that can help you manage your Microsoft 365 tenant more efficiently. Each command documentation is 'handcrafted' not generated code which makes it more human-readable and easier to understand. Last but not least, CLI for Microsoft 365 has commands which are scenario-based and are not just wrappers around Graph API.

### Why not use PnP PowerShell instead?

> If you use PowerShell, PnP PowerShell is a convenient solution that you can use to manage different parts of Microsoft 365. CLI for Microsoft 365 offers additional flexibility with the ability to run it in any shell. CLI for Microsoft 365 also offers unique commands to manage SPFx solutions. Whether you're a beginner or an advanced user, and want to use CLI for daily interactive use or scripting, you can configure CLI for Microsoft 365 to your needs making an invaluable tool in your toolbox.

Reviewer 2: Dropping some more ideas

- Interactivity
- Easier to discover commands since everything is grouped into command groups, also with `--help` it's easy to discover commands
- Very extended well documented docs with clear information about options, output, ... with useful examples

Author: Here I don't agree on the docs part. 
PnP PS has also manually created docs not generated and also has examples etc.

Reviewer 2: I didn't mean they are not manually created and don't contain examples. I just wanted to point out some things we do slightly better in my opinion. But that might be just my perception.

Author: I would say that with the docs 'it depends'. Some like long and extensive information, other just want the necessary details and a few examples to get you started. I would not use this argument

- You may use it in CI/CD pipelines. It integrates easily with Azure DevOps and natively with GitHub workflows. CLI has dedicated [GitHub actions](../user-guide/github-actions) which you may use directly in GitHub workflow and it allows you to scaffold a pipeline for [Azure DevOps](../cmd/spfx/project/project-azuredevops-pipeline-add) and [GitHub workflows](../cmd/spfx/project/project-github-workflow-add).
- ***[Manage SharePoint Framework solutions](../cmd/spfx/spfx-doctor)***. CLI for Microsoft 365 will help you setup your local environment for SPFx development and will help you with common tasks when developing SPFx solutions, like validating its correctness or getting guidance on how to upgrade it.
- Make [CLI for Microsoft 365 your own](../user-guide/configuring-cli). CLI for Microsoft 365 offers a variety of settings that will allow you to customize it for your specific use case or needs. If going over the settings is challenging, then you will love the [m365 setup](../cmd/setup) command that will help you customize CLI for common use cases like setting it to be tailored to be run in a script.

> - AI, Of course, we have an AI! CLI for Microsoft 365 comes along with an [AI assistant chili 🌶️](../user-guide/chili) that will help you find the right commands for your tasks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- AI, Of course, we have AI! CLI for Microsoft 365 comes along with an [AI assistant chili 🌶️](../user-guide/chili) that will help you find the right commands for your tasks.
```

> - AI, Of course, we have an AI! CLI for Microsoft 365 comes along with an [AI assistant chili 🌶️](../user-guide/chili) that will help you find the right commands for your tasks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- AI, of course, we have AI! CLI for Microsoft 365 comes along with an [AI assistant chili 🌶️](../user-guide/chili) that will help you find the right commands for your tasks.
```

> - How many CLI's allows you to run it as your API in an app? That is what I though. [CLI for Microsoft 365 may be used as an API](../user-guide/use-cli-api) in your Node.js app.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- How many CLIs allow you to run them as an API in your app? Exactly! [CLI for Microsoft 365 can be used as an API](../user-guide/use-cli-api) in your Node.js app.
```

> - How many CLI's allows you to run it as your API in an app? That is what I though. [CLI for Microsoft 365 may be used as an API](../user-guide/use-cli-api) in your Node.js app.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- How many CLIs allow you to run them as an API in your app? Exactly! [CLI for Microsoft 365 can be used as an API](../user-guide/use-cli-api) in your Node.js app.
```

SharePoint Online Management Shell is a great tool, but it's limited to SharePoint Online and only works with Windows PowerShell. Additionally, it only supports SharePoint administration tasks, so you can only use it to run admin-related commands. In contrast, CLI for Microsoft 365 offers a variety of commands from many different areas of Microsoft 365. It's a more comprehensive tool that can help you manage your Microsoft 365 tenant more efficiently.

### Why not Microsoft Graph CLI or Microsoft Graph PowerShell SDK?

Microsoft Graph CLI and Microsoft Graph PowerShell SDK are amazing, but they are limited to Microsoft Graph API. CLI for Microsoft 365 integrates not only Microsoft Graph but also SharePoint (REST API and CSOM), Azure, Planner, Power Platform, and other APIs. It's a more comprehensive tool that can help you manage your Microsoft 365 tenant more efficiently. Each command documentation is 'handcrafted' not generated code which makes it more human-readable and easier to understand. Last but not least, CLI for Microsoft 365 has commands which are scenario-based and are not just wrappers around Graph API.

### Why not use PnP PowerShell instead?

> If you use PowerShell, PnP PowerShell is a convenient solution that you can use to manage different parts of Microsoft 365. CLI for Microsoft 365 offers additional flexibility with the ability to run it in any shell. CLI for Microsoft 365 also offers unique commands to manage SPFx solutions. Whether you're a beginner or an advanced user, and want to use CLI for daily interactive use or scripting, you can configure CLI for Microsoft 365 to your needs making an invaluable tool in your toolbox. CLI for Microsoft 365- offers interactive mode by default which will actively prompt you for required options. CLI for Microsoft 365 is also more intuitive since all commands are grouped into areas like `spo` for SharePoint Online or `entra` for Entra ID, which makes it easier to find the command or operation you are looking for.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you use PowerShell, PnP PowerShell is a convenient solution that you can use to manage different parts of Microsoft 365. CLI for Microsoft 365 offers additional flexibility with the ability to run it in any shell. CLI for Microsoft 365 also offers unique commands to manage SPFx solutions. Whether you're a beginner or an advanced user, and want to use CLI for daily interactive use or scripting, you can configure CLI for Microsoft 365 to your needs making an invaluable tool in your toolbox. CLI for Microsoft 365 offers interactive mode by default which will actively prompt you for required options. CLI for Microsoft 365 is also more intuitive since all commands are grouped into areas like `spo` for SharePoint Online or `entra` for Entra ID, which makes it easier to find the command or operation you are looking for.
```

> If you use PowerShell, PnP PowerShell is a convenient solution that you can use to manage different parts of Microsoft 365. CLI for Microsoft 365 offers additional flexibility with the ability to run it in any shell. CLI for Microsoft 365 also offers unique commands to manage SPFx solutions. Whether you're a beginner or an advanced user, and want to use CLI for daily interactive use or scripting, you can configure CLI for Microsoft 365 to your needs making an invaluable tool in your toolbox. CLI for Microsoft 365- offers interactive mode by default which will actively prompt you for required options. CLI for Microsoft 365 is also more intuitive since all commands are grouped into areas like `spo` for SharePoint Online or `entra` for Entra ID, which makes it easier to find the command or operation you are looking for.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you use PowerShell, PnP PowerShell is a convenient solution that you can use to manage different parts of Microsoft 365. CLI for Microsoft 365 offers additional flexibility with the ability to run it in any shell. CLI for Microsoft 365 also offers unique commands to manage SPFx solutions. Whether you're a beginner or an advanced user, and want to use CLI for daily interactive use or scripting, you can configure CLI for Microsoft 365 to your needs making an invaluable tool in your toolbox. CLI for Microsoft 365 offers interactive mode by default which will actively prompt you for required options. CLI for Microsoft 365 is also more intuitive since all commands are grouped into areas like `spo` for SharePoint Online or `entra` for Entra ID, which makes it easier to find the command or operation you are looking for.
```
